---
layout: article 
title: Project 2
categories: project 
image:
    feature: talaris.jpg
--- 

# TALARIS
# TALARIS
## A test-bed for Lunar robot testing .

 

TALARIS project was started at MIT space system laboratory. This system could hover upto several meters in the sky from the ground. It was a hovering test bed for testing and varifying the different functions of Lunar robot developed by MIT. In order to fly and land back on the ground, a very good sensor for orientation and altitude is needed, IMU is usually a good option. However, due to strong noise and vibration caused by the motor of the wings, IMU seemd to be erroneous and inconsistent. In alternative to that, another sensor Laser distance sensors is considered.  The idea is to use four  line in sight laser sensors at four edges of the hover test-bed and find an algorithm to determine altitude and orientation fo the test-bed while it is in the air. The obtained algorithm will be compared with the onborad IMU sensors for its robustness in sensing the attitude of the hovering test-bed.

 

Project Level: Undergraduate

 

Project scope:

   *  Understand various coordinate system and trasformation
   
   * Understand the functioning of different sensors like distance sensors, Laser sensors, IMU

   * Write a communication protocol for Data acquisition from Sensors.
   
   * Design and propose an algorithm to find the attitude of the robot by using the measurements of 4 laser sensors.

 

Reccomended background: Mechanical, Electronics/Eectrical, computer Science and similar

 

What will you learn

    * Basics of Linear algebra and Coordinate transformation

    * Programming communication protocol.

    * Signal preprocessing and analysis

    * Learn and implement a very popular algorithm Least square algorithm

 

NOTE: You will have access to the real experimental data from the Laser sensors and IMU sensors to test your algorithm.
